# hakchi2 CE v1.0.1 - Bugfix Edition!

This is v1.0.1 of hakchi2 CE. This release is mainly aimed at compatibility and bugfixes.

## Bugfixes and improvements

- Fixed the errors users had when running hakchi2 CE directly from a slow USB device
- Fixed the errors on flashing custom kernel when the app is installed on a FAT32 partition
- Fixed the errors on flashing custom kernel when the temp folder is on a FAT32 partition
- Prevented message boxes from appearing behind the main window
- Make the first run dialog be shown to users that are upgrading from a previous version of hakchi2 (non-CE)
- Make the original games restore when upgrading from a previous version
- Other minor internal fixes

## FAQ / Common Issues

- **Q:** On app start, I receive an error about "System.NotSupportedException: The requested security protocol is not supported."
- **A:** You are most likely on an older version of .NET, or a version of Windows older than Windows 10. Microsoft has provided a hotfix for this issue, please download it here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/3154518/support-for-tls-system-default-versions-included-in-the--net-framework

- **Q:** Retroarch gives me a black screen on NES games (or others not run by the native emulator).
- **A:** The only currently compatible and tested retroarch hmod release is the one by @KMFDManic, _km_retroarch_170_1_29_18.hmod in his core set.

- **Q:** Which filesystems for USB and SD drives are supported?
- **A:** We strongly recommend either NTFS or ext2/ext3/ext4. FAT32 is supported, but is very prone to data loss and is not recommended.
