---
layout: minimal
---
# hakchi2 CE v1.1.0

This is v1.1.0 of hakchi2 CE. This release brings a **lot** of new features, in addition to some bugfixes. As always, if you encounter any bugs, please feel free to open an issue on Github and we'll try to address it as we can.

## Under the hood improvements

* **Significantly** reduce the amount of data being copied to the temp folder during game sync
  * If you are not using Game Genie codes, your temp folder will now likely be a few hundred KB instead of a whole copy of your collection
* **Differential game syncs for NAND/SD users**
  * If you are changing only a handful of games, only those games that were changed since your last sync get transferred during sync, rather than wiping your whole collection and re-uploading it
* Revamped HMOD install process
  * Installing and uninstalling HMODs no longer requires your console to be in FEL mode. Just power it on like normal and connect it to your PC, then select the mod installation option
  * The mod management windows are now formatted more nicely and showcase information such as mod author and category
* Support for flashing both SD and stock uboot
  * SD users no longer need to use hakchi1 for uboot flashing
* Default to SD uboot.bin when membooting
* Fix for FTP server reporting 500 error when trying to list files in a directory
* Now if there is a file called `nonportable.flag` in the hakchi2 installation directory, it will run in nonportable mode (`/nonportable` also still works)
* Manual reboots after kernel flashes are no longer required
* The generated kernel.img is smaller, **which may fix issues with flashing the custom kernel users had on previous versions**
* Added a new web installer in addition to our other distribution methods

## UI Improvements

* **Integration with SFROM Tool (thanks /u/darkakuma)**
  * In the menu (only for SNES/SFC Mini users), select `Settings > SFROM Tool > Enable` and follow the on-screen instructions
* Boot splash screen options
  * Choose a custom splash screen, restore the default, or disable it entirely
* Added an option to re-install the hakchi scripts to the console without requiring an `Uninstall` followed by `Flash custom kernel`
* New `Export games` dialog
  * The dialog ensures that you're exporting to a valid `/hakchi/games` directory on a drive
  * If you have multiboot game separation enabled and are on a US or EUR system, the dialog prompts you to select one (JPN systems are auto-detected)
* Added the ability to edit the sort name and save count for any specific game
* Widened the window to allow for full size cover art display
* Added a setting to enable game thumbnails to be centered, rather than bottom-aligned (disabled by default)
* Custom thumbnails smaller than 40x40 will no longer be upscaled
* Reset Google Image search back to previous keywords
* Clean up built-in folder images
* New icon set
* Fix for default games not checking up in some cases
* Fix the issue with boxarts containing transparency losing the transparency after import
* Better boxart scaling (higher quality)
* Re-arranged UI elements to have a better arrangement

## FAQ / Common Issues

- **Q:** On app start, I receive an error about `System.NotSupportedException: The requested security protocol is not supported.`
- **A:** You are most likely on an older version of .NET, or a version of Windows older than Windows 10. Microsoft has provided a hotfix for this issue, please download it here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/3154518/support-for-tls-system-default-versions-included-in-the--net-framework
<br/><br/>
- **Q:** Retroarch gives me a black screen on NES games (or others not run by the native emulator).
- **A:** Be sure you are using the latest version of Retroarch provided by @KMFDManic. `_km_retroarch_170_1_29_18.hmod` in his core set is known to be working, but any version newer than that is likely to work as well.
<br/><br/>
- **Q:** I'm getting occasional Clovershell timeouts during game syncs or other operations 
- **A:** Clovershell ocasionally crashes. Your best bet is to reboot your console and maybe restart H2CE for good measure. We are hoping to replace Clovershell in the near future with a more robust solution.
<br/><br/>
- **Q:** Which filesystems for USB and SD drives are supported?
- **A:** Short outline below:
* We strongly recommend ext2/ext3/ext4. 
* FAT32 is supported, but is prone to data loss if your system is not properly shut down (don't pull the power plug). 
* NTFS is also fully supported, but if you're doing all three of the below together then you may have issues: 
  * Running H2CE from the USB drive itself
  * The drive is NTFS
  * You are using the USB drive instead of H2CE to manage HMODs
* If this is the case, please use H2CE to manage your HMODs, rather than USB transfer. With the new HMOD installation process, managing HMODs is no harder than games, and does not require FEL mode.