# hakchi2 CE v3.4.0

---

This is v3.4.0 of hakchi2 CE. This release should be ready to handle the new 2018 models of Nintendo NES/SNES minis (NES 2018 rerelease and Shounen Jump special edition Famicom). It also incorporates a more stable and versatile network discovery mode, mDNS, which is, incidentally, the main reason for another important version jump.


## DISCLAIMER

---

**hakchi2 CE** by @TeamShinkansen and **hakchi** scripts from @madmonkey1907 have always been experimental software: while we strive to offer a risk-free experience, unpredictable things can happen, so
**USE AT YOUR OWN RISK!**


## Important information regarding Clovershell

---

If you've been upgrading from older versions of hakchi, it is very possible that your NES/SNES mini is still running the `Clovershell` protocol. If that is so, this new version of hakchi2 CE will not allow using `emulated FTP` or `Synchronization` as long as you are using it.

In order to use the new SSH connection protocol, you only need to first make sure your `kernel is up-to-date` and then you can go into `Modules -> Uninstall extra modules`, uncheck `clovershell` and then click `OK` at the bottom. If the uninstall goes well, when your NES/SNES mini reboots, it should be connected using the new network protocols.


## Bugfixes / Improvements since v3.3.0

---

- Fix command lines of Shounen Jump original games
- Remove obsolete now unused console settings `Enable USB host` and `Use extended font`
- Update `Font Remount` hmod, including a new font with more characters
- Add `/info` user directory where one can add libretro .info files for custom cores
- Fix a bug that prevented readmes from appearing correctly in `Select modules form`
- Update hakchi.hmod core scripts:
  - mDNS announce service
  - flash uboot should work fine now
- Fix games not checking in some games collections when adding games and `Separate games storage` is disabled
- Fix export games on `Shounen Jump` silently failing
- Add some safeguards on `Tools -> Switch running firmware`
- Add some amazing user submitted (on Discord server) folder images
- Reworked the internals handling NES/SNES mini detection on the network, hopefully for the best
- Removed PING listener; add DNS resolve listener
- Longer timeouts in MemoryStats.cs to allow for very large game collections
- Fix firmware switching causing issues over wifi
- Removed blacklisted hmods from user_mods


## FAQ / Common Issues

---

**Q:** After rebooting, I get a dialog saying my NES/SNES Mini is taking a long time to reboot and it never comes back online.
**A:** There are many possible reasons for this, but here are a few common causes:

- Drivers may not be installing correctly. You can either try manually installing the driver located in `hakchi2_CE/driver` named `Nintendo_Classic_USB_Driver.exe`, or if this does not work, you can also try an open-source utility called `Zadig`. You can download it at this address: https://zadig.akeo.ie/ .
- Sometimes, Windows' Firewall may be blocking the connection. Make sure to `Accept` incoming/outgoing connections when running hakchi2 CE. Windows should advise you of which program is requesting access. Only accept for hakchi2 CE. You can also, for debugging purposes, try to disable it and see if it works. Do not leave your system without a firewall afterwards though, this is there for a reason.
- A device may be confusing hakchi2 CE or your NES/SNES mini on the network, like a games console on your network, or other devices. If possible, you can try disabling your ethernet or wifi connection to see if it helps, as a temporary measure, of course.

---

**Q:** My NES/SNES Mini is in `Recovery mode`, I can't do anything, what is that?

**A:** This mode is when your console does not boot completely, or if you've attempted a kernel operation that might have failed. It will also happen if you select `Kernel > Advanced > Boot recovery kernel from RAM` of course. To get out of this mode, if you don't know how to use the shell, is to click `Tools > Reboot` or, if this does not work, turn off the NES/SNES Mini power switch, and unplug its USB power cable manually.

---

**Q:** I have an error saying "kexec.static" file is not found and I cannot update my hakchi scripts! What can I do?
**A:** At the moment, this issue is a real mind-bender, but in order to fix this, simply download the installation package for the current build and variant you are using (debug or release) and update your hakchi2 folder manually with it. There are files in the /tools/arm/ directory that needs to be there that have somehow been deleted.

---

**Q:** Where is the dump kernel menu option?
**A:** It's gone! If you have a kernel dump in hand, you should still keep it safe, as uninstalling will require using it. However, if you're ever installing hakchi again on a NES/SNES mini which has its factory kernel installed, the backup is automatically done by the install script and saved somewhere safe, directly in the console's NAND memory.

---

**Q:** Retroarch gives me a black screen on NES games (or others not run by the native emulator).  
**A:** Be sure you are using the latest version of Retroarch (or at the very least, a recent release). A good place to start is here: https://github.com/TheOtherGuys-Hakchi-Projects/Hakchi-Retroarch-Neo-1.7.0

---

**Q:** It seems as if many captions, labels and messages are still in English when I switch to using my own language in the language menu! Why can't I get all the interface in my language like before?
**A:** Our current team has focused solely on improving and adding features for the meantime. We're looking into solutions to restore full translations, or at least refresh the languages we can translate ourselves. We are interested to know how many people are actually using foreign languages, so you can inform us if your language isn't fully translated and this affects you.

---

**Q:** How can I give my games a "save icon" in the NES/SNES mini menu?
**A:** Use the `Save Count` property on the main hakchi2 CE interface. Setting it to zero means no icon, and any number from 1 to 3 will display an icon.

---

**Q:** My games are not sorted the way I want them to be! How can I change this?
**A:** The `Sort name` field in hakchi2 CE's main interface exists solely for this purpose. You can alter the default string generated there and it will affect sort order.

---

**Q:** My games are broken. The command line seems to point to an non-existent file. Is there anything I can try besides manually repairing them?
**A:** Yes. For games that don't work anymore, you can try the `Repair games` option that appears in the main games list context menu.

---

**Q:** Where is `SFROM Tool` located in hakchi2 CE? I've heard it supports it, but can't find how to use it!
**A:** You first need to visit DarkAkuma's website: http://darkakuma.z-net.us/p/sfromtool.html . And download his tool there. Also download the patches you want to apply. Then decompress the archive in the `sfrom_tool/` folder under your hakchi2 CE's personal directory (there is already a placeholder there for this use). Decompress the patches you want to use inside the `patches/` folder. And finally, in hakchi2 CE, enable `Settings > SFROM Tool` and profit! From then on, when importing SNES games, they will be converted by this tool. You can also find additional options in the games list's context menu `SFROM Tool`. Finally, there is helper code to allow dragging & dropping the install package and .cnp files onto hakchi2 CE. You can try this as well!

---

**Q:** Can I add a new app or game, but manage it manually and add the files in its directory later on?
**A:** Use `File > Add custom app`.

---

**Q:** Help! My original games don't show up in my games list!!!
**A:** This can happen if you either deleted the files in the `games_originals/` folder, or if you've selected `View > Original games > Hidden (Unselected)` in the menu. In the former case, use `File > Restore original games` menu item. In the latter, simply select a different option within that submenu, it should restore your original games in list!
**A:** A new feature is accessible through `Settings -> Always copy original games`. This will only allow using original games that have been previously cached by hakchi2 CE upon connecting the desired console. Unchecking it will show all original games, regardless of their availability. hakchi2 CE will continue to rely on those original games to be present on your NES/SNES mini when syncing games to it.

---

**Q:** Help! My custom games are not in the list anymore!
**A:** Make sure the menu option `Settings -> Separate games storage` is checked if you are using `/games` and `/games_snes` folders to store your NES and SNES games separately. When this option is unchecked, only games in `/games` are considered.

---

**Q:** When I sync my games on my NES/SNES mini, it always takes a long time and the differential sync doesn't seem to help!
**A:** This can happen if you either use any of the automatic folders/pages generating options, because whenever you add or remove games, it substantially modifies the folders and file structure, so the differential sync cannot help much. There are two methods to help alleviate this: first we suggest you use the **"Linked sync"** option, this usually reduces the amount of data needed to transfer by a BIG margin. And second, if you manage your folders manually using the **"Custom - Use folders manager"** structure option, if you keep your folder structure very similar, it should not happen too often.

---

**Q:** When I sync my games on USB, it always takes a long time and the differential sync feature doesn't seem to help!
**A:** See above answer, this partly applies to USB export as well, however, in this case, the best scenario is to use the **"Linked export"** feature, accessible in the export dialog. This only requires that hakchi2 CE be installed on the USB drive. Keeping folder structure similar between exports will also help.

---

**Q:** Where is the `Folders Manager` menu item that was present in the `Tools` menu before?
**A:** For consistency, it's been moved to `Structure > Custom - Use folders manager` button-menu. Select this option and click on it again to access the folders manager.

---

**Q:** Why can't I sync my NES (USA/Europe) games collection to my Super Famicom (Japan) console? I've read that this new version supports HSQS image files and multiboot!
**A:** In order to use *multiboot*, you simply have to make sure `Settings > Separate games for multiboot` is checked. Switching between enabling and disabling this option will *delete the previous games collection(s)* that were managed using either technique.

---

**Q:** I can't seem to use my games on my USB drive via my OTG device. It worked before!
**A:** One thing to verify first if it the menu option `Settings > Enable USB host` is enabled. This setting is stored on the NES/SNES mini and you either need to sync your games, or press the `Settings > Save settings to my NES/SNES mini now` option to save it.

---

**Q:** I'm getting occasional Clovershell timeouts during game syncs or other operations  
**A:** Clovershell ocasionally crashes. If you are running the latest version, emulated FTP and synchronization are disabled when running Clovershell. Follow the instructions given in the `Important information` section of this document.

---

**Q:** Often when I try to drag a selection in the main games list, my mouse goes crazy and the list ends up scrolled past its limit.
**A:** This is a Windows API bug in the ListView control. Hard to tell when this bug was introduced, but it's present on any software using its built-in ListView control. There is someone on GitHub who released a small tool to fix this issue globally, if you're interested: https://github.com/tablacus/TablacusWindows10FCUBugFix/releases

---

**Q:** On app start, I receive an error about `System.NotSupportedException: The requested security protocol is not supported.`  
**A:** You may still be running hakchi2 CE v1.1.0? If that is the case, you can upgrade to this new release and this error should not occur again. Be advised you need to have an up-to-date install of .NET v4.6.1.
**A:** If you still want to use v1.1.0, you are most likely on an older version of .NET, or a version of Windows older than Windows 10. Microsoft has provided a hotfix for this issue, please download it here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/3154518/support-for-tls-system-default-versions-included-in-the--net-framework

---

**Q:** Which file systems for `USB and SD drives` are supported?  
**A:** Short outline below:

- We strongly recommend ext2/ext3/ext4. 
- FAT32 is supported, but is prone to data loss if your system is not properly shut down (don't pull the power plug). 
- NTFS is also fully supported, but if you're doing all three of the below together then you may have issues: 
  - Running H2CE from the USB drive itself
  - The drive is NTFS
  - You are using the USB drive instead of H2CE to manage HMODs
- If this is the case, please use H2CE to manage your HMODs, rather than USB transfer. With the new HMOD installation process, managing HMODs is no harder than games, and does not require FEL mode.

